.TH LOGSHELL 1
.SH NAME
logshell - Log a shell session to a file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlogshell \fR[\fB-hvo\fR] [\fB-c \fI{script|screen}\fR] [\fB-f \fI<logfile>\fR] [\fB-s \fI<shell>\fR] [\fB-e \fI<file>\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlogshell\fP is a tool for logging shell sessions. It supports terminal colors, different shells, and a few different commands for logging. Cat the log files back later for full color.

.SH KNOWN ISSUE
Using programs that control the full screen (vim, less, etc) inside the logged shell can make the output file difficult to read.

.SH OPTIONS
    \fB-h\fR                      Print this help message
    \fB-v\fR                      Print the version number
    \fB-o\fR                      Strip escape sequences (and color) from output
    \fB-e \fI<file>\fR               Strip escape sequences from an existing file
    \fB-c \fI[script|screen]\fR      Command to use (script or screen)
    \fB-f \fI<logfile>\fR            Output file (try default)
    \fB-p \fI<logpath>\fR            Output path (do not use with -f)
    \fB-s \fI<shell>\fR              Shell to use

.SH NOTES
1. Once you have logged a shell session, use 'cat' to view the file in full color. Note: this is not recommended if full screen programs were opened inside of your log. If that is the case, the file should be formatted with the -e option.

2. If you set a command as your shell (with the -s option), logshell will execute it, log the output, and then exit. The following will start the quizlight program, log its output, and then log out of the system entirely so the test-taker can't do any tampering:
    
    logshell -s quizlight ; exit

Note: This only works with commands that output to standard output.

3. Using logshell to capture trace output is a good development tool. Full output is captured, and can be compared to trace output from known working versions for debugging.

4. logshell can also be used to watch live tcpdump output and log it at the same time.

.SH EXAMPLES
    logshell
    logshell -p .
    logshell -c screen -f mylog.log
    logshell -s csh

.SH CONFIG
Running logshell -h will create a local copy of the logshell config file at ~/.config/logshell.conf for you to edit.

.SH FILES
    {/usr/local|~/.local}/share/logshell/logshell.conf
    {/usr/local|~/.local}/share/doc/logshell/README.md
    {/usr/local|~/.local}/share/doc/logshell/CHANGELOG.md
    {/usr/local|~/.local}/share/doc/logshell/LICENSE
    ~/.config/logshell.conf

.SH AUTHOR
    Dan Persons (dpersonsdev@gmail.com)

.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2017 Dan Persons

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
